# Aim and scope close to DP
- Covers key research areas such as pattern recognition technology and <mark style="background: #EDAC0CCF;">control of system-environment interactions</mark>.
- Promotes learning for the <mark style="background: #EDAC0CCF;">improvement of communication schemes between systems</mark>.

# Notes
- Publisher: SPRINGER HEIDELBERG
- Filters: Full-publish history
- Dr. Kárný, F. Hůla, M.Ruman and A. Jedlička submitted here.
- Dr. Kárný a F. Hůle got published
# Similar articles 

### [An efficient multi-source information fusion approach for dynamic interval-valued data via fuzzy approximate conditional entropy](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s13042-024-02112-8)

- Published: 28.03.2024
- Similarity: 
	- <mark style="background: #EDAC0CCF;">Information fusion enables the integration and transformation of complimentary data from different sources</mark>, providing a unified representation for c<mark style="background: #EDAC0CCF;">entralized knowledge discovery</mark>, which can contribute to effective <mark style="background: #EDAC0CCF;">decision-making</mark>, classification, prediction, and more. Multi-source interval-valued data, represented in the form of intervals to capture uncertainty phenomenons, is a common type of symbolic data that finds extensive applications in the real world. <mark style="background: #EDAC0CCF;">This paper aims to investigate the effective fusion of multi-source interval-valued data and to design dynamic updating algorithms </mark>for the situations involving multiple dimensions. <mark style="background: #EDAC0CCF;">The objective is to enhance the efficiency of fusion processes</mark>. Firstly, this paper use <mark style="background: #BBFABBA6;">the Kullback–Leibler divergence to measure the dissimilarity between interval distributions</mark>, and construct fuzzy similarity relation. Furthermore, we define a fuzzy information granule structure of interval-valued. Secondly, the concept of fuzzy similarity relations is utilized to construct fuzzy <mark style="background: #EDAC0CCF;">decision-making</mark> for objects. Subsequently, based on the aforementioned fuzzy information granule structure and fuzzy <mark style="background: #EDAC0CCF;">decision-making</mark>, we propose a novel measure called fuzzy approximate conditional entropy and design a corresponding entropy fusion model. Finally, we discuss various scenarios where dynamic changes occur simultaneously in the attributes and information sources of dynamic multi-source interval-valued data. We design corresponding dynamic update algorithms for these situations. Numerical experiments are conducted on nine UCI datasets to validate our proposed fusion method. <mark style="background: #EDAC0CCF;">The experimental results indicate that our fusion approach exhibits improved classification performance compared to the common fusion method</mark>s. The designed dynamic update algorithms are also capable of reducing computation time and enhancing fusion efficiency.
### [Knowledge transfer enabled reinforcement learning for efficient and safe autonomous ship collision avoidance](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s13042-024-02116-4)
- Published: 16.03.2024
- Similarity: 
	- Research on collision avoidance <mark style="background: #EDAC0CCF;">decision-making</mark> (CADM) for autonomous ships is a very challenging task in the shipping field. Considered one of the machine learning algorithms that has received considerable attention, reinforcement learning technology enables actions to be continually optimized by agents interacting with the environment, aiming to maximize rewards and returns. Significant potential is attributed to the research on autonomous ship collision avoidance. To investigate an efficient and practical ship collision avoidance algorithm, the <mark style="background: #EDAC0CCF;">knowledge transfer (KT)</mark> method is employed in this research to introduce an improved reinforcement learning approach. With a thorough understanding of ship collision avoidance behavior and the Convention on the International Regulations for Preventing Collisions at Sea (COLREGs), a reward function is designed to guide and constrain ship collision avoidance behavior. Subsequently, ship collision avoidance tasks are categorized, and <mark style="background: #EDAC0CCF;">knowledge from source tasks is extracted and transferred</mark> to closely related target tasks. Experiments have been conducted across various collision avoidance tasks, encompassing diverse types and degrees of similarity. In multi-ships cases, the success rate of the learned knowledge applications of head-on, overtaking, and crossing encounter cases are 90%, 95%, and 82.5% respectively. The outcomes demonstrate that the proposed method enhances algorithmic efficiency while satisfying the requirements for safety and rule compliance in ship collision avoidance behavior. Furthermore, the methodology could also benefit other autonomous systems in dynamic environments.
### [Double-quantitative multi-granularity kernel fuzzy rough sets model and its application in rheumatoid arthritis risk assessment](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s13042-018-0827-4)
- Published: 09.05.2024
- Similarity: 
	- The medical big data of combined Chinese and western medicine diagnosis and treatment (CCWMDT) is difficult to be used effectively in <mark style="background: #EDAC0CCF;">clinical medical decision-making</mark> because of its complex structure and multi-source storage. In this paper, we discuss the problem of <mark style="background: #EDAC0CCF;">multi-attribute group decision making</mark> (MAGDM) in complex information systems with multi-source, diversified and hybrid attribute information. With the help of traditional information systems, a hybrid diversified attribute information system (HDAIS) is first defined. Further, with the involvement of kernel functions, a binary relation over HDAISs is then presented. At the same time, in response to the problem of inaccurate information, a double-quantitative model is introduced to <mark style="background: #EDAC0CCF;">extract effective information</mark> from the perspective of absolute and relative metrics, and the rough approximations of a decision target concept under the multi-granularity framework are given, namely, a double-quantitative multi-granularity kernel fuzzy rough set (DQ-MGKFRS). Based on the above, a<mark style="background: #EDAC0CCF;"> group decision method is established</mark> on DQ-MGKFRS to r<mark style="background: #EDAC0CCF;">ealize the information fusion</mark> of HDAIS. Finally, the proposed method used in the medical decision problem of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) diagnosis. The results of comparative analysis and sensitivity analysis illustrate the feasibility, effectiveness and robustness of our method.

### [Ordinal unsupervised multi-target domain adaptation with implicit and explicit knowledge exploitation](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s13042-022-01626-3)
- Published: 12.08.2022
- Similarity: 
	- As an emerging research topic in the field of machine learning, <mark style="background: #EDAC0CCF;">unsupervised domain adaptation (UDA) aims to transfer prior knowledge from the source domain to help training the unsupervised target domain model</mark>.

### [Bipolar fuzzy Petri nets for knowledge representation and acquisition considering non-cooperative behaviors](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s13042-020-01118-2)
- Published: 17.04.2020
- Similarity: 
	- Fuzzy Petri nets (FPNs) are a promising modeling tool for knowledge representation and reasoning. As a new type of FPNs, bipolar fuzzy Petri nets (BFPNs) are developed in this article to overcome the shortcomings and improve the performance of traditional FPNs. In order to <mark style="background: #EDAC0CCF;">depict expert knowledge</mark> more accurately, the BFPN model adopts bipolar fuzzy sets (BFSs), which are characterized by the satisfaction degree to property and the satisfaction degree to its counter property, to represent <mark style="background: #EDAC0CCF;">knowledge parameters</mark>. Because of the increasing scale of expert systems, a concurrent hierarchical reasoning algorithm is introduced to simplify the structure of BFPNs and reduce the computation complexity of knowledge reasoning algorithm. In addition, a large group expert weighting method is proposed for <mark style="background: #EDAC0CCF;">knowledge acquisition</mark> by taking experts’ non-cooperative behaviors into account. A realistic case of risk index evaluation system is presented to show the effectiveness and practicality of the proposed BFPNs. The result shows that the new BFPN model is feasible and efficient for knowledge representation and acquisition.
	- In this paper, a new BFPN model is developed to enhance the performance of FPNs in knowledge representation and reasoning. The BFSs are adopted to deal with the inexact and u<mark style="background: #EDAC0CCF;">ncertain expert knowledge in knowledge representation</mark>. Considering experts’ non-cooperative behaviors, an expert weighting method is proposed to derive cluster weights objectively in the knowledge acquisition. Via dividing a BFPN into several layers, a concurrent <mark style="background: #EDAC0CCF;">hierarchical reasoning algorithm</mark> is suggested to simplify the structure of BFPNs and reduce knowledge reasoning complexity. Finally, a realistic case of risk index evaluation system is provided to illustrate the proposed BFPNs. The results prove that the BFPN model is a promising and effective modeling technique for knowledge representation, acquisition and reasoning.
### [Dynamic uncertain causality graph based on cloud model theory for knowledge representation and reasoning](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s13042-020-01072-z)
- Published: 03.09.2019
- Similarity: 
	- The dynamic uncertain causality graph (DUCG), which has been widely applied in many fields, is an <mark style="background: #EDAC0CCF;">important modelling technique for knowledge representation and reasoning</mark>. However, the extant DUCG models have been criticized because they cannot precisely <mark style="background: #EDAC0CCF;">represent experts’ knowledge</mark> owing to the ignorance of the fuzziness and randomness of uncertain knowledge. In response, we propose a new type of DUCG model called the cloud reasoning dynamic uncertain causality graph (CDUCG). The CDUCG model, which is based on cloud model theory, can handle with the fuzziness and randomness of uncertain information simultaneously. Moreover, an inference algorithm based on the combination of CDUCG and the Technique for Order Preference by Similarity to an Ideal Solution (TOPSIS) is proposed to implement fuzzy knowledge inference effectively and thus make the <mark style="background: #EDAC0CCF;">expert systems</mark> more dependable and intelligent. Finally, illustrative examples and an industrial application concerning root cause analysis of aluminum electrolysis are provided to demonstrate the proposed CDUCG model. And experimental results show that the new CDUCG model is flexible and reliable for <mark style="background: #EDAC0CCF;">knowledge representation and reasoning</mark>.

### [Novel decision-making algorithms based on intuitionistic fuzzy rough environment](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s13042-018-0827-4)
- Published: 20.06.2018
- Similarity: 
	- Intuitionistic fuzzy sets and rough sets are two different mathematical models to deal the problem of how to understand and <mark style="background: #EDAC0CCF;">manipulate imperfect knowledge</mark>. An intuitionistic fuzzy rough framework is made by combining these two models, which is a more flexible and expressive for modeling and processing incomplete information in information systems. In this research study, we introduce intuitionistic fuzzy rough graphs, and describe certain types of intuitionistic fuzzy rough graphs with several examples. We present applications of intuitionistic fuzzy rough graphs in <mark style="background: #EDAC0CCF;">decision-making problems</mark>. We develop efficient algorithms to <mark style="background: #EDAC0CCF;">solve decision-making problems </mark>and compute time complexity of each algorithm.




